so you can probably get a sense for what
the the flip side is on the talent side
if you're trading people out quickly
I've certainly seen this before if
you're not ramping people effectively uh
that that's a real Sun cost uh customers
feel it when Reps don't know product uh
Jason I'm pretty sure this is something
that you've opined on time and again in
many of your posts it's just the
importance of actually knowing the
product um and if a manager is not there
to enable and reinforce that positioning
when to go for the Enterprise cube when
to go for the pro Cube you need the
manager um to be listening and on those
calls and analyzing the conversational
intelligence to know if the quality of
the conversations is there awesome thank
you for having me Millie and Jason I'm
happy to be here I've been my new role
for only eight days now but I'm working
for Francisco Partners consulting which
is in arm of Francisco Partners which is
is a private Equity Firm based out of
the Bay Area and it's an interesting
pivot for me I really love the kind of
work that I did I've been a revenue
leader forever just a meta question
before we I really want to save the time
for talking about front light sales
managers but HubSpot to Bill Hub and I
may have this a little bit wrong but
HubSpot we're talking about there's
bigger customers but 10K 11k 12K
customers on average the m and SMB is
Brian used to say or likes to say right
Bill's got a lot of tiny customers yes
tiny I don't know what the average ACV
is but it might be 1K or something like
that on average so if you had to
summarize all the differences between
selling to 10K and 1K what resonates
with you what are your big how different
are they what what are the biggest
differences that come to mind yeah uh
great question and I'll tell you uh a
lot of pattern recognition between the
two businesses Jason
HubSpot when they opened the aperture to
go to a premium motion we got a lot of
those yeah lower end of the market
customers and so I think and to be
honest the pattern recognition even
extends back to when I was at log me in
which had the product joined. me it had
rescue it they merged with go to meeting
became goto um but I think any company
that um is working in that micro small
business space uh really has to
delineate where do we put resources and
investment and how do we create more of
a plg motion in order to continue to to
create that moat and that volume and
improve those conversion rates down
Market in order to free up time
resources space to really capture if
it's lower midmarket if it's really the
upper end of small business but how do
you segment and make sure that you have
the right go to market motions across
Marketing sales execution and customer
success so similar and when I started at
at HubSpot I ran the small business
sales team for uh two years there a lot
of our customers were below 10
employees so yeah similar different but
similar and just one last follow up then
I'll then let's do Frontline sales
managers and ask more questions at the
end but if you had to summarize today
there's been inflation the world has
changed yeah where is the line where you
can have human in the loop in sales and
when you just can't when can you afford
it in 2025 what's the line you think if
you had to if you had to draw one at an
exact
ACV oh that's a good question I I would
have to say it depends on where the
company is in their growth trajectory
and where you are in your learning curve
about your IP and if you know your ICP
down pat a 5k ACB and below I would 100%
try to figure out how do you get as much
of an of an automated process to
engage yeah that that would be my that
would be my perspective yeah it's good
cool 5K is a great one okay let's let's
talk about Frontline sales managers I
could ask you a lot of other I could ask
you other questions later or another
time but this is great thanks thanks for
kicking it off yeah yeah you got it so
listen Jason you you pinged me I think I
had a post of some kind on on LinkedIn I
usually do this while I'm waiting in
line my LinkedIn post at at Tate which
is my coffee shop nearby
and and you said hey let's chat about
this on saster and Frontline sales
manager I've run the full
Revenue organization at bill was 1.3
billion um in Revenue publicly treated
company I had about 500 people under me
at HubSpot I was a head of revenue for
the Americas I had about 800 people over
me um but I have a real special place in
my heart for the impact that Frontline
sales managers have and I have to say
and this is from my own experience as we
take a look
at the invest investment constriction
that we've all had to endure over these
last few years one of the first areas
that we decided to not invest which to
be honest I think was a mistake and by
we also me in terms of prioritization
was in Frontline manager
enablement and it there's real impact so
what I'm going to walk you through today
is lessons learned from my own
perspective and where not in investing
in the strength of the S Frontline sales
managers where that can have Downstream
impact into the business and some best
practices that I've learned along the
way uh so let's get into it why are
Frontline managers so important so
listen I'll tell you I go into almost
every new fiscal year some of you that's
going to start January 1 for others it
will be other times and I always go in
with
this glass half full excitement that
this year is going to be different we
have the right strategy in place we have
the right goals in place we're going to
execute better than we ever have I'm
signing up for higher uh sales
productivity because we're going to
implement these new tools and I I'm
always so excited as I move into the new
year but as you actually practice and go
through the motions of achieving your
goals it's the tactics that can fall
short sure the strategy can fall short
but every single year any company I've
I've been at you start with the mission
this one's usually pretty
fixed you have the vision whether it's
for the year or the next few years then
you have what are the overall objectives
the strategy that we're going to take
and in the end it's the tactics and when
we take a look at the Frontline sales
managers this is a group that is
responsible for delivering and executing
uh against the tactics in order to reach
your goals and your overall strategy for
the year and I'll tell you this can uh
fall short and for me I had at HubSpot
for
example over a hundred uh Frontline
sales managers under me and what's great
about high volume sales and large teams
like this again is that kind of pattern
recognition and so when I looked at what
are some teams that are doing things
really well what are some teams that
aren't a lot of it came down to the
manager and what I saw was everything
from one manager team sold more of our
Enterprise skes one manager's team had
super high volume but it was low ACV and
they missed their number a bunch another
one might be that one manager kept
churning reps out and so you start to
see at scale where some of your tactics
that you thought you just execute
against fall short if you don't have the
foundational strength of your Frontline
sales managers so in my view this is
what the benefit really is when you take
a look at not just the impact of a sales
manager to their team but the impact
that I can have within the organization
first and formost they are hiring your
next gen of top talent and ideally they
are hiring the next managers the next
directors and you really need to get
that hiring Playbook really tight and
ensure that your Frontline managers are
doing a great job with their
interviewing and who they're bringing on
board and that you're measuring the
impact we actually did a really
interesting study um when I was at
HubSpot uh with a graduate student from
MIT and this was actually Brian hallan
the founder had um asked us to uh do
this research with which was if we take
a look at how we scored our hires we had
scorecards for everyone we had
characteristics and attributes that we
were hiring on we would give them a
score of one to five we took a look at
those scorecards and we looked at the
attainment of those hires uh 12 months
after they were on board 18 months 24
months is there anything we could glean
from who we hired and what they scored
highly on that translated to really top
performers um and the number one aspect
was coachability and so I share that
with you because ensuring that your
Frontline managers are hiring well and
that you're going back and looking at
their track record are there people who
are traded too early are there people
who they were just low performers they
weren't ramping on time it's the
Frontline manager who really is the key
to the success of all of that head count
in your Revenue
organization that's one of them the
other one is sales manager by proxy of
overseeing a team of seven8 nine 10 reps
they are have acute pulse of the
customer as well as the macroeconomic
environment give you a quick example in
early
2022 this is when you started to on the
earnings calls of Salesforce and and
many others this was the beginning of
the sales pipeline halt right we had the
the
postco boom and then it came to a bit of
a halt and what we started to hear from
RS but managers who were sharing this up
is uh the CFO is now on the decision
committee we have to go to the PE firm
or the board for approval we started to
see that the financial buyer was a much
much more important key
stakeholder the point here is the
customer the access to the customer
you're going to first hear that from the
rep and the
manager and so they play a really key
role of listening to Prospect and
customer
sentiment
process they have acute awareness of
what's working and what's not one of the
things I just came off a call with a
bunch of portfolio companies one of the
things we're were talking about is the
importance of uh data strategy and with
that data strategy managers and Reps
they're going to be the first ones to
tell you we have bad data we have
duplicate data there's one rep who's
working at the same account that I am
the customer the prospect they're not
happy about it uh managers are the first
ones to point out there are problems in
in our overall
process they can be a real key into
making sure you're building for the
success of the long term of course they
enable people they're
coaches dare I say they're armchair
psychologists they are mentors but they
also are teaching the product
positioning pricing positioning they're
teaching the systems they're teaching
the Reps about the ICP now of course
great companies have this through an
enablement department but the person who
reinforces it and also make sure that
their reps are executing on what they've
learned as effectively as possible that
person's the Frontline sales
manager of course the revenue drivers
they're the key to Growing product
acquisition expansion
retention and especially when you're
rolling out a new product and or go to
market strategy for whether it's product
expansion if it is managing your current
customer base you want to make sure that
your managers are in lock step on the
how and if it's not working that you're
getting that feedback as soon as
possible so of course that's a big one
and then finally culture I know
everybody has heard this people quit
their man at their boss not their
company I think that's a Hal truth but
it's true bad managers you're going to
read it all over glass store and if
you're not investing in them uh that's
going to lead to poor performance for
the Reps that's going to lead to poor
culture and one of the things that I've
seen very consistently in terms of being
one of the biggest growth drivers at
companies I've worked at it's having
highly tenured reps those reps are the
ones that tend to have in my experience
tend to have the highest in in rep
productivity so you want to retain you
want a higher right you want to retain
those reps uh and when you have the
right leaders in place they want to
stick around and they uh Drive higher
productivity so I would say tell your
CFO investing in the in the above is
worth the consistent investment so you
can probably get a sense for what the
the flip side is on the talent side if
you're treating people out quickly I've
certainly seen this before or if you're
not ramping people effectively uh that
that's a real Sun cost uh customers feel
it when Reps don't know product uh Jason
I'm pretty sure this is something that
you've opined on time and again in many
of your posts it's just the importance
of actually knowing the product um and
if a manager is not there to enable and
reinforce that positioning when to go
for the Enterprise skew when to go for
the pr skew do you sell multiple
products up front or do you do a single
product that you land with then you
expand within the first 90 or 100 days
you need the manager um to be listening
and on those calls and analyzing the
conversational intelligence to know if
the quality of the conversations is
there so this is really important as I
mentioned from Prospect perspect
perspective problems will multiply if
you're if they don't get addressed
managers the ones that are bringing
those forward often
loudly and then of course Miss Revenue
goals long tale of underperformance and
we already talked about the impact to
overall
cultures listen the impact of this
really is sunk cost and um please take
this as a warning from
me I would say at various points when
budgets were tight the prioritization in
my view was always um enabling the Reps
right even if there was investment in
Evergreen content but if you were not
investing in the
managers to ensure that they can
reinforce there can be a real Gap there
and it will be a hit to not just your
Revenue but also to your um overall
investment strategy uh into your Revenue
team how can you build a worldclass
Frontline manager
team so this is this is a lot here on
the left but as I was thinking about
this I really think there were three
components maybe four truly uh that play
into really building an effective team
uh the first one is consistent learning
we're going to talk about you know what
that can look like both from like great
investment there and work piecing it
together doesn't have to be super
expensive it just needs
purpose the other one is measurement
measurement all day long everything and
I would say the bias for most companies
is to measure reps who are underneath a
manager we're going to talk about how
you can actually measure a manager and
their effectiveness it really packs a
punch and I've seen that if you measure
the right things in managers against
managers in the way that you measure
that can really Elevate the entire group
so measurements a big one and then of
course culture so we'll we'll go into a
bunch of these a few I want to call out
here on the left
expectation setting I think is a big one
and there's never a wrong time to get
this started but really making sure that
you're purposeful in spelling out what
is the expectation of a manager what is
the expectation of a rep and having that
written down for everyone to access and
sign off on and this you might iterate
on this once a quarter twice a year um
but making sure there are clear
expectations of what you expect of your
managers repeatable scalable Frameworks
if you can make things easy I'll give
you an example we just I did a training
when I was at bill with all of our
managers and Mike Weinberg I don't know
if um any of you on the call are
familiar with him highly recommend him
he did training for us he did it at at
HubSpot as well he has a super easy
framework about
pipeline uh analysis it's called RPA and
its results pipeline activity and it's
just letting the Reps know once a week
we're going to have a call that's all
we're going over what are your results
what are your pipeline what's your uh
activity it's a super easy quick uh
framework the more that I think you can
have quick easy Frameworks that you can
scale I think I think the
better a culture of coaching I think is
a big one this is another one different
companies have different perspectives on
this some think the sales manager should
be responsible for pipeline
management and ensuring that they're and
deal coaching
the other one is coaching on Deal
strategy it's on how do you expand your
average deal size how do you sell
multi-products up front versus maybe
just one product up
front a manager really needs to analyze
the Tea Leaves of what's happening on a
rep by rep basis and serve as a coach to
help them improve their performance the
difference between good managers and
great managers is good managers say this
is what you were doing great managers
say this is how you can do it better and
it's the how that makes a real
difference manager career pathing this
kind of falls into that learning bucket
does a manager know what they need to do
in order to promote and that's one of
the things I did love about my time at
HubSpot is we had automatic
promotions and so people were gunning to
hit the numbers that they needed to hit
in order to get promoted so I thought
that was a great one and of course you
need to make sure that the manager is
aligned with the company Mission Vision
strategy and goal for those of you on
the call who have worked in Revenue many
of you know when you're know that
certain managers are not aligned with
the goals for the year they're not
aligned with the strategy and if their
friends who are managers know it you
have to imagine the Reps not it as well
so how do you make sure that everyone is
singing from the same Hy
sheet okay so this is on the the setting
expectations early I just wanted to
break this down on the align uh
alignment um let's actually startop
start at the bottom here uh I actually
have this kind of numbered out of whack
but nonetheless it all starts with the
company goals right does everyone know
what we're going towards uh clear
understanding and ability to articulate
the why behind the company goals uh the
director Andor the BP our headed sales
should make sure that all of the
managers can articulate back what are
the company goals for this year and why
why do they matter uh so I think that's
actually really good exercise uh culture
and values is this person culturally
additive are they
demonstrating high expectations for the
highest of Standards how do you know
that uh I mentioned this earlier but
really that clear expectation setting a
guide book for the manager role what are
their responsibilities what does success
look like I think in too many
organizations manager success means they
hit their number or they didn't hit
their number uh and that is very
rudimental and so there should really be
some strong success criteria around that
and then what does it look like if they
were progressing from a softer skill
Andor they have
Mastery I think there should be
different U measurements that they are
aware of that happen on a weekly basis
monthly basis quarterly basis and and
some of those measurements should be
qualitative and some of them
quantitative and ideally benchmarked
against their their their management set
if you have multiple managers and then
finally is there a consistent feedback
loop is there a coaching culture to
coach that Frontline manager what does
that look like what does that sound like
and do you have that in place for your
organization today so I think that's a
that's another really important
one so on the learning front I think
there's a lot of areas where you can
strengthen manager Effectiveness really
easily I really loved when we did I went
through
that we did a transition of what our
pitch was at HubSpot and everyone in the
company on the revenue side head of
sales every SVP had to record themselves
giving the new pitch and you needed to
be certified and you had a panel who
listened and they gave you a score and
they gave you feedback managers should
go through this too and at the top of
the call one of the things I had
mentioned was sometimes we really push
rep enablement and the managers don't
have to go through these certifications
or these trainings highly recommend that
there's a level of rigor and you make
sure that not only can your man have
they gone through the certification but
they can prove out that they can execute
it really well and they have an
execution plan with their team
situational leadership lots of companies
do this through the HR organization
sales methodology some of them like
Sandler or like mine Mike Weinberg who
his is on manager Effectiveness they
incorporate um manager in that but I
think sales methodology training I don't
care who you are doing it once a year is
helpful to absolutely everybody there
are always new tips and tricks on how to
be more effective in the way that you
engage and Converse with
others I think this one of them holding
effective one-on ones and I mentioned
Frameworks there are a lot of them out
there if you just Google effective
one-on ones there's a whole science
behind how do you listen more what's the
difference between telling and guiding
how do you agree on next steps action
items what are those deliverables what's
the method in which you track your
one-on ones I think a lot of Frontline
sales managers especially if it it's the
first time they're doing it they
struggle with being liked versus being
effective and a lot of one-on ones you
know don't get recorded or they're only
recorded if someone's not doing well I
think the practice of effective one-on
ones is a really good one that I don't
care what department you're in is really
good
um one that is really inexpensive that I
know my teams have loved in the past is
when you bring in the CFO to talk
about Trends in the business why the
stock price might be going well why it
may not be going well what are we
hearing from investors what role do they
play in it there are all sorts of ways
that teams can figure out how they can
get closer to the macroeconomic trends
that are happening and then some of
these other ones diversity bias training
these are
always really great food for thought as
you think about building inclusive and
diverse
teams and of course radical cander I
think this is an area that I have seen
managers struggle with especially when
they become close to their team and
they've managed some people for many
years those are the Reps that they tend
to not get a lot of feedback or if
they're one of the best reps their
learning can end at times with their
manager and so making sure that there is
this continuous feedback loop that
managers have the strength in delivering
radical cander to tell someone the path
you're on is not the right one let's get
you on the right path I think is really
important and then these last two I
think
any anyone who's manager level even
director level at companies how do you
influence with authority within the
company and or how do you effectively
manage stakeholders
internally and execute change my hope is
so many of your businesses are high
change organizations because that means
that you're growing and these are all
areas in which you can you can enable
and improve your
managers this is the area that I geek
out and makes me feel like I have real
handle on what's going on in my business
this is the measurement side right so
effective measurement is really
effective management so I would really
implore you to think about how you
analyze the impact of a Frontline sales
manager so I talked about this before
daily weekly monthly quarterly manager
goals both companies last few companies
I worked for culture score actually
having a manager employee net promoter
score tells you a lot about how the team
is feeling and where the manager
effective if you don't have that in
place at your company now a very simple
Google form that says what is Jason good
at what should Jason continue doing what
should Jason stop doing any other advice
you you'd have for
Jason really easy way just to get some
very quick feedback from the team this
one I really love uh when I left build
this is an area that we really started
to measure but of the
managers we pulled this from gong data
how many calls are they attending how
many calls have they scored how many
calls have they listened to that really
goes to
show coaching and engagement with
coaching in the Reps uh we actually did
an analysis when I was at HubSpot and we
saw that the managers who engaged most
in gong had the highest
attainment and then lastly on the
measurement side just an area I
recommend is a manager Benchmark
scorecard this one right here this first
bullet is one of my absolute favorite
ways to measure manage your impact and
Effectiveness what percent of their reps
and you can do this for last month
trailing three months trailing six
months trailing 12 months what percent
are above
100% 110 90 to 100 80 to 90 below that
that in my view really gives you a good
sense of what is the balance of strength
of a manager and you'll have a manager
who who um is crushing their number they
have a great territory they inherited
some of the best reps uh but they really
have two reps carrying them that have
been Banner Reps for years and years so
when you take a look at the balance of
health of a team I will take a manager
that you know is bringing people up and
um over 100% more of them than the
manager who's crushing the number but
it's only from two people because that's
high risk so I really love that
measurement rep attrition this is
another one you see a manager has atted
maybe three reps over the last four
months five months you're going to think
there might be something here overall
rep productivity how does that Benchmark
against some of the other uh manager
teams uh the the amount of ramp time is
the manager making sure that they're
getting the Reps uh up and running
quickly and then the
commercials what is their ACB what's
their product mix what SKS are they
selling
how much is their discount I've seen a
lot of variance with manager discounts
sales cycle length it's really
interesting when you have so many
managers at scale and this pattern
recognition that you see a lot of this
differs manager by manager and it's not
just reps you see the change and so a
lot of this really
is behavior that can be worked on and
improved and then this last one which I
think is certainly important for anyone
who is a revenue leader or CEO you want
to make sure you have forecast accuracy
and so measuring that on a monthly basis
um how accurate is the manager's
forecast what is the variance is it plus
or minus 5% the ideal for me has always
been within about three percentage point
two is really ideal but that forecast
accuracy is really
important and then we're getting towards
the end here but I mentioned this before
direct managers are often the number one
reason employees Stay or
Leave the best practice that I've seen
with my teams is you start a new year
having everyone on the team under a
manager together Define what should our
team culture be what should our team
identity be and spending the time to
talk about where are we how do we want
to uh operate together what are our
guiding principles and what do we want
to hold ourselves to um making sure that
the company values are really permeated
through everything the team is doing and
examples of that should be celebrated
often for example humility um or
accountability I think those are great
ways to Showcase you know once a month
someone gets a A values award uh Team
meetings I've I've certainly joined some
snoozers of Team meetings they should
really be to energize and align and um
in an interview process I would
specifically ask Frontline managers who
are applying what does a great team
meeting look like to you how do you
Galvanize your team what do you do what
do you learn what do you bring to the
table transparency Candor High execution
psych safety of course is
important and just reinforcing the fact
that managers really are that connection
Point uh from the company culture to the
team culture and uh we all know that
unfortunately certain people can get it
wrong and that makes a real big impact
and that one manager can impact Seven 8
nine 10 people which certainly is a hit
to to uh the culture okay real quick
internal versus external hires uh this
is a question I get a lot
and and I think they're both great
internal hes it's going to be faster
ramp time it certainly bolsters uh the
culture when it comes to reps and other
managers seeing career progression uh
and that institutional knowledge at a
company expands right there is a real
immediacy to impact an internal hire can
have that said at a certain size and
scale you want people who have seen the
film and can add new Value New
Perspective new skills to the team and
if you're taking a look at your team and
almost everybody there has grown up at
the company you might want to think
about bringing a fresh perspective on
how things can be looked at and executed
different differently the second bullet
here is especially for those disgruntled
managers who are over the baggage of
systems issues data issues process
issues bringing in someone fresh who can
see everything from brush eyes and being
grateful to be at this new company with
eyes wide open I think that can also
bring a real boost to other people
around them so they're both good needed
for different times of growth common
mistakes this one I mentioned investing
in rep development and assuming that
manager development can be lumped
together lack of consistent feedback
loop on the manager's performance Beyond
hitting their number looking at manager
attainment simply as a number not as a
holistic
scorecard and then the success criteria
of what really solid effective good
manager looks
like not being codified whether it's
through the expectation setting or
during review
periods but some of the things that
should be brought into view include or
effective at cross functional
collaboration or the people that they
work with hate them do they manage
change well or their team laggards with
change or do they take change very
quickly so final thoughts and
tips really make investing in Frontline
uh Talent a priority and an every year
line item as I mentioned there are a lot
of inexpensive ways to do it but it
really should become a fabric in the way
that you operate having a continuous
learning
culture I think you should think about
quantify the cost of getting it wrong
there are real cost to the business
Topline Revenue as well as just
long-term impact if you don't get this
right and I'm happy to discuss some
ideas on the many ways to enable and
prioritize that outsides investment in
the short term in order to get that
long-term
Roi that's what I got Jason yeah end or
milia yeah we have two people asking the
same question I think you can bothe we
written about it a lot on faster but I
think good to get both your takes here
live which is what do you think is the
best sales plan structure it's a very
loaded question I don't think I don't
think I can actually give an answer to
that and it's because different
companies you might be at one company
and it might be all new business logo
acquisition
it might be you need to get the deal
size higher there are a lot of variables
that play into that
and I even on my own team there isn't a
one one siiz fits-all that I've seen
there have been different compant for
different people but the standard I see
for sass reps
50% um salary
50% variable and some companies have it
where if the rep hitss 110% the company
hits 100 that's the HubSpot model mod
some have it if the company uh if the
Reps hit 90% the company hits 100% uh so
they're all different it I I don't think
there's one best answer what do you
think Michelle on the when you're trying
when you're talking with candidates base
versus
OT what are the
flags and versus attainment right
because at the end of the day base if if
you're any good in sales even if you're
mid pack Base is almost meaningless
right it's a tame an OT what are your
thoughts on that what are your thoughts
on candidates that are obsessed about
Bas what are your thoughts on the fact
that I find most sales folks can't do
this math very well yeah they can't
they're obsessed I need the highest OT I
need 10K more OT but it doesn't matter
half the time so thoughts on that mix of
that mix of of pieces and the ability to
explain it to candidates yeah I so I
will say in my heart of hearts I've been
in sales now
for almost 25 years 24 years I have seen
so many great reps leave companies
really good solid companies because they
got a higher base higher OT and it never
came to fruition and so I think yeah
like never right never and your question
is a super valid one and or also to
chase a title a big title and they
they're not even ready for that title
that is just being given to them so I
would definitely say go to rep
viw if if they have or glass store
depending on the company's size but it's
always nice to see if they could talk to
another rep or hear from other reps what
percent is are they actually making
their
number anything below 50% I would just
be a little weary
of just the odds are much lower that
you're going to hit your full OT I would
also ask about things like accelerators
I would ask about clawbacks I would ask
about what is your
retention I know people get excited to
get new jobs especially if they're
trying to get out of something that
they're not happy about so they'll forgo
asking those tough questions it always
bites you in the tush and so you got to
ask about accelerators retention
clawbacks overall rep attainment that's
my
recommendation yeah we bring on right
he's got a good question Jared thank you
Michelle for the session it was great
yeah you got it thanks here's my
question how did the so manager to AE
ratios while you were at HubSpot and you
talked about like the importance of
Frontline management what did you find
was the ideal manager to AE ratio at
HubSpot and what how would your answer
change if you think about 2021 world and
2025 world going in the next year yeah
uh good question so I will say The Sweet
Spot this is my ideal sweet spot is
always seven reps one manager based on
where I've work I found by the way
that's expensive that's an expensive
model I found even when at hob spot we
were a more of a single Product Company
so I started there in 2018 the sales
product hadn't
really busted out just yet 2018 2019 is
when it really started to get its legs
at scale um 910 was just a lot
and it and it depends what percent of
your reps are you
ramping what is the ramp time how much
uh enablement does the company invest in
how much does the manager have to do how
many products do the Reps have to sell
what is the sales cycle length and the
more
complex the
sale by nature of Sal cycle length is
how I would how I would measure that and
number of products if is where I would
air on fewer fewer reps per manager in
terms of the
ratio seven is a real nice to have
that's a very Choice setup I would say
eight and eight eight is more likely
nine I think tends to stretch it yeah
good coaching cool this was great Melle
thank you very much thanks thanks
everyone